README.md, before:

## Codewars Test Framework for COBOL

### Project setup

`src` contains the preprocessor `preprocessor.py` and two copybooks `tdata.cpy` and `tproc.cpy` which are imported by the preprocessed test code.

All COBOL projects contain the following files: `solution.cbl` and `tests.cbl`. `preloaded.cpy` is an optional copybook.

### Running examples

```
python3 src/preprocessor.py example_hello/tests.cbl
```

This command creates `example_hello/tests-out.cbl`.

```
cobc -x -std=ibm-strict -O2 -I src -I example_hello -o out example_hello/tests-out.cbl example_hello/solution.cbl
```

This command compiles the source code and creates the executable `out`. The `-I` option specifies the path for copybooks.

```
./out
```

The script `run` executes all these commands automatically:
```
./run example_hello
```

### Test code

The following statements can be used in test code.

#### `testsuite (identifier | literal)+.`
Starts a group of tests. Examples:
```
testsuite 'Group 1'.
testsuite 'Group ' n.
```
Note: the period at the end is mandatory. The period cannot appear in any literal (even inside quotes). The maximum group title length is 80 characters.

#### `testcase (identifier | literal)+.`
Starts a test case. Examples:
```
testcase 'Test 1'.
testcase 'Testing n = ' n.
```
Note: the period at the end is mandatory. The period cannot appear in any literal (even inside quotes). The maximum test case title length is 80 characters.

#### `expect identifier to be (identifier | literal)`
Compares the first indentifier with the second identifier (or literal) and reports a failure if they are different. Examples:
```
expect result to be expected
expect result to be 'Hello, World!'
```

#### `end tests.`
This statement should be placed at the end of test code. It is possible to define subroutines after this statement. Note: the period at the end is mandatory.

#### `assert-true`
Prints a passed test message. Example:
```cobol
if result > 0
  move 'the result is positive' to assertion-message
  perform assert-true
end-if
```

#### `assert-false`
Prints a failed test message. Example:
```cobol
if result <= 0
  move 'the result should be positive' to assertion-message
  perform assert-false
end-if
```

#### `set-random-seed`
Initializes the random seed. The seed value is provided in the variable `random-seed`. If the value of `random-seed` is zero (the default value) then the random seed is initialized with the current time value. Example:
```
perform set-random-seed
```

Commit message:

-fstatic-call: all function calls are static

README.md, after:

## Codewars Test Framework for COBOL

### Project setup

`src` contains the preprocessor `preprocessor.py` and two copybooks `tdata.cpy` and `tproc.cpy` which are imported by the preprocessed test code.

All COBOL projects contain the following files: `solution.cbl` and `tests.cbl`. `preloaded.cpy` is an optional copybook.

### Running examples

```
python3 src/preprocessor.py example_hello/tests.cbl
```

This command creates `example_hello/tests-out.cbl`.

```
cobc -x -std=ibm-strict -O2 -fstatic-call -I src -I example_hello -o out example_hello/tests-out.cbl example_hello/solution.cbl
```

This command compiles the source code and creates the executable `out`. The `-I` option specifies the path to copybooks. `-fstatic-call` makes all function calls static.

```
./out
```

The script `run` executes all these commands automatically:
```
./run example_hello
```

### Test code

The following statements can be used in test code.

#### `testsuite (identifier | literal)+.`
Starts a group of tests. Examples:
```
testsuite 'Group 1'.
testsuite 'Group ' n.
```
Note: the period at the end is mandatory. The period cannot appear in any literal (even inside quotes). The maximum group title length is 80 characters.

#### `testcase (identifier | literal)+.`
Starts a test case. Examples:
```
testcase 'Test 1'.
testcase 'Testing n = ' n.
```
Note: the period at the end is mandatory. The period cannot appear in any literal (even inside quotes). The maximum test case title length is 80 characters.

#### `expect identifier to be (identifier | literal)`
Compares the first indentifier with the second identifier (or literal) and reports a failure if they are different. Examples:
```
expect result to be expected
expect result to be 'Hello, World!'
```

#### `end tests.`
This statement should be placed at the end of test code. It is possible to define subroutines after this statement. Note: the period at the end is mandatory.

#### `assert-true`
Prints a passed test message. Example:
```cobol
if result > 0
  move 'the result is positive' to assertion-message
  perform assert-true
end-if
```

#### `assert-false`
Prints a failed test message. Example:
```cobol
if result <= 0
  move 'the result should be positive' to assertion-message
  perform assert-false
end-if
```

#### `set-random-seed`
Initializes the random seed. The seed value is provided in the variable `random-seed`. If the value of `random-seed` is zero (the default value) then the random seed is initialized with the current time value. Example:
```
perform set-random-seed
```
